so check this out Carol Dweck and her
colleagues wanted to look into the
impacts that praise had on children's
development so what they did is they
took over four hundred fifth grade
students from all across the nation and
they did a really simple yet interesting
study here's how it went down they gave
all the kids are really really easy
nonverbal IQ tests there were ten
questions and at the end of the test
they praised all the children in one of
two ways the first group was praised for
their intelligence
so they said wow great job you must be
really smart at this now the second
group was praised for their effort so
they said wow great job you must have
worked really really hard at this now
this is a really subtle difference but
the impact it had is incredible
so after praising the kids and getting
them divided up into the two groups they
gave them all an option for their next
test the first option was hey this next
test is going to be a little bit harder
but it's going to be a great opportunity
to learn and grow now the second option
was this next test will be similar to
the first and you will surely do well on
it now the interesting thing is out of
the group that was praised for their
intelligence 67% of them chose the
easier option while 92% of the kids who
were praised for their effort chose the
harder test this is unbelievable to
think about how just the subtle
difference in the way that they were
praised had such an impact Carol Dweck
explains why this happens child or adult
here's oh you think I'm brilliant and
talented that's why you admire me that's
why you value me I better not do
anything that will disprove this
evaluation as a result they enter a
fixed mindset they play it safe in the
future and they limit
they're the growth of their talents
whereas focusing on the strategies they
use the way they're stretching
themselves and taking on hard tasks the
intense practice they're doing those are
the kinds of things that say to a child
and for an older athlete it's about the
process of growth as a result they don't
feel oh if I make a mistake you won't
think I'm talented they think oh if I
don't take on hard things and stick to
them I'm not going to grow next Dweck
and her colleagues gave all the kids a
really really difficult test it was one
that they would surely fail but they
wanted to look at how the different kids
attack this challenge
blech notice that the group that was
praised for effort worked harder longer
and actually enjoyed this test more than
the group that was praised for their
intelligence this group got really
frustrated with this test and had the
tendency to give up early after this
artificially induced failure around all
of the kids were given a third and final
test now this test was the same level of
difficulty as a first one but check out
the results the group that was praised
for their intelligence actually did
worse on this test than the first one
their average score actually dropped by
20% while the group that was praised for
their effort did significantly better
raising their average score by nearly
30% this is a 50% difference in
performance that was caused by a few
subtle differences in the way that they
were praised this study shows how
parades can either make or break a
child's development I mean we all do it
we all want to be positive with the
children we work with so teachers
coaches parents are always looking for
ways to support their kids and tend to
praise them quite a bit so we need to
look at research like this and realize
okay praise is a good thing and there's
nothing wrong with being positive but we
need to be very careful about praising
someone's intelligence or abilities and
focus more on the process and the effort
that they put forth I think this is a
pretty easy fix that will help us
develop growth mine
sets within the kids that we work with
and as all the research shows having a
growth mindset has a big-time impact on
the development of a child whether it's
on the court in the classroom or just in
life thanks so much for following along
and watching this video
for more like this visit championship
basketball school comm and click on the
championship newsletter we'll see you
next week thanks guys
you